# WSL Initialization

Now you have installed `pwsh` successfully, its time to install Linux inside windows using `wsl` (Windows Subsystem by Linux).

**Note:** Ensure hardware virtualization is enabled through BIOS. If you don't know how to enable it search on the youtube with the following keywords *How to enable hardware virtualization in [your System Model or at least company name]*. You will get the detail easily.

## Install Linux in Windows Machine

Following are commands you may use as per your situation. Don't follow linearly, use your Discretion.😊

```bash
# upgrade wsl itself
winget upgrade Microsoft.WSL

# See whether a linux distro already installed.
wsl -l -v

# List available Linux Distro(s). Note down desired "Name"
wsl -l -o

# Install/upgrade default distro (Ubuntu LTS)
wsl --install
wsl --upgrade

# Install/upgrade specific Linux distro
wsl --install -d <distro_name>
wsl --upgrade -d <distro_name>

```

Congratulations!🎉
You have installed Ubuntu Kernel inside Windows.

## Basic `wsl` commands

| Command | Use |
|---|---|
| `wsl -l -v` | List installed distributions and WSL versions. |
| `wsl -l -o` | List distributions available for install. |
| `wsl --install` | Install the default (Ubuntu) Linux distribution. |
| `wsl --install -d <distro_name>` | Install a specific distribution. |
| `wsl --update` | Update default (Ubuntu) WSL kernel. |


## Update Ubuntu (Debian based OS) packages

Now you can open the Linux Bash Shell very similar to how you opened PowerShell.

**Note:** If it's the first time, it may ask you for the superuser username and password. Provide it and note it down; you will need this same password frequently in the future.

```bash
# Update source lists
sudo apt update

# See upgradable packages
sudo apt list --upgradable

# update all upgradable packages
sudo apt upgrade

```

## Magic commands!

If you installed Linux kernel with `wsl`, you can leverage Microsoft integration. For example whatever path you mentioned inside Windows Environment variables are also available inside Linux Kernel. For example if you just type `calc.exe` within Linux Bash Shell, On Windows The Calculator application open.

- `notepad.exe`     : Open Notepad
- `control.exe`     : Open Control Panel
- `explorer.exe .`  : Open Windows Explorer at the current location
- `pwsh.exe`        : PowerShell from Linux Bash Shell! 😮

**Note:** You need to mention full name. For example instead of `pwsh`, you have to mention `pwsh.exe`.
